 
Git Branching

In Git, branches are a part of your everyday development process. Git branches are effectively a pointer to a snapshot of your changes. When you want to add a new feature or fix a bug—no matter how big or how small—you spawn a new branch to encapsulate your changes.
 
Git Revert and Reset

git reset is used when we want to unstage a file and bring our changes back to the working directory. git reset can also be used to remove commits from the local repository.

git revert is used to remove the commits from the remote repository. Since now our changes are in the working directory, let’s add those changes to the staging area and commit them.
 
Git Rebase and Merge

Git rebase takes all the changes, and compresses them into a single patch and integrates this new patch onto the target branch. Then, it moves the completed work from one branch to another, typically the master branch. In the process, rebase flattens the history, removing unwanted entries.

Git merge, on the other hand, only changes the target branch and creates a commit, preserving the history of the source branch.

 
Task 1:

Add a text file called version01.txt inside the Devops/Git/ with “This is first feature of our application” written inside. This should be in a branch coming from master, [hint try git checkout -b dev], swithch to dev branch ( Make sure your commit message will reflect as "Added new feature"). [Hint use your knowledge of creating branches and Git commit command]

    version01.txt should reflect at local repo first followed by Remote repo for review. [Hint use your knowledge of Git push and git pull commands here]

Add new commit in dev branch after adding below mentioned content in Devops/Git/version01.txt: While writing the file make sure you write these lines

    1st line>> This is the bug fix in development branch

    Commit this with message “ Added feature2 in development branch”

    2nd line>> This is gadbad code

    Commit this with message “ Added feature3 in development branch

    3rd line>> This feature will gadbad everything from now.

    Commit with message “ Added feature4 in development branch

Restore the file to a previous version where the content should be “This is the bug fix in development branch” [Hint use git revert or reset according to your knowledge]

 

 
  
